# Code at the edge Meeting 3 Dec 2018


Date: 3 Dec 2018, 13:00 ET  
Attendees: matt, frances, laila, faraz, dawn

## Curriculum Template

Recall from our Initial Use Case: 

- teach students enough issues (privacy, trust, verification)
- teach staff enough about the system to enable them to replicate/expand the workshop themselves
- develop takeaways from the workshop (and interviews?) for a future iteration and structure

Format:
- 2.5 hours/day over 4-5 days
- 3 phases in lesson plan
    introduce skill
    integrate skill into a “final project”
    have some sort of web literacy connection
- curriculum set up in single folder lesson structure with html, js, css file

## Graduated Learning Objectives

At the end of the week, every student will:
- Have a web page built with html and css
    - Template with familiar layout. Students are doing some but not all of the work
    - Fundamental concepts:
        - Structure!
            - tags
            - elements
            - div 
            - text 
            - images
        - *Nesting* (and grouping?)
        - *LINKS* Feels like a lightbulb
        - Changing Look & Feel *CSS* 
            - *Scope* (trojan horse?)
            - Text (headers, bold, italics, font face)
        - Connecting CSS and HTML
        - JS--approach? 
            - as treasurehunt, 
            - bonus at the end of the game
            - maybe look at grasshopper model--- drawing boxes activity
- Feel pride and excitement
- Teaching the same material, embedded multiples times with a variety of modes (hands-on, practice, project)
    - What the internet is, computer is, you (What is it to be a non-machine talking to machines)
- Some: get excited for more!
    - Still visitable on web after! 
    - Host the website online for long-term?
    - Used stuff like beaker browser to dweb link the two?
    
## Course

Session 1:
    - Icebreaker (thinking about computers/internet?)
    - Practice (fill in the Blank)
        - "Tell me about yourself"
        - Upload a picture
        - Productive
        - Low explicit concept introduction

Session 2: (Same day?)
    - Away from the computer most of the session
 
Session 3-5:
    - At computer, 3 sections
    - Skill-building
    - Project!

## Thoughts, props

- Bring Mechanisms where you can see a deterministic reln between outcome and machine
    - e.g., motherboard
    - e.g., music maker
- Bring resources for them to look at later
    - tech zines! electronic zines
    - mobile phone loaded with apps?

## Background work

What background work are we doing?
- Some set of pre selected libraries (e.g. bootstrap?)
- Scaffold project (e.g. for jekyll, hugo)
- Web-maker built in template?
- Using CI v. local build for curriculum?
  - Matt's Current flow:
      - HTML template
      - XHR? <-- Klipse?
      - https://github.com/DigitalHistory/advanced-topics

# Facilitation techniques

- Pair Programming
- Practice and Skill combined (Instructions, Doing the Stuff)
