# Code at the Edge Chat with SL 20 Nov 2018

Date: 20 Nov 2018, 8:00 pm ET  
Attendees: Matt, Faraz, Udit, Dawn, Laila   

## Notes

- Intros!
    - Faraz: computer science, workking on project
    - Matt P: teach history, philosophy (incl. tech!) 
    - Udit: electronic engineering background, IoT, Community Networks, grew up in india, have been to the region of w. sikkim while on a trek
- Talking about trekking!
    - Udit: did a trek ^^
    - Matt: talks about the project with Frances, students to KMP, weaves into the village where the project is happening, KCC conservation community (why the group was there with tech tools)
- Matt P: project background:
    - Students from project were building websites and issues with on the ground access in the region
    - Had experience with html workshops before, different than the experience teaching here (has a background in it)
    - KGBV project, india-wide model schools for girls from "backward castes and scheduled tribes"
    - School had resources: computers, textbooks, uniforms
    - Region: no wired internet, cell signal patchy, current moment of conduit laid and plan to pull fibre in the near future
    - Plan for broader network avaialbility: gov't and private ISPs. Different plans for roll-outs
    - Seems like basically no WebDevs, typically contracting out of region
    - "When the internet comes what if the most highly trained professionals in the region were girls from the school"
    - Initial environment: Jsbin on pi, travel router with wireless, laptops complementing desktop
    - The moment anything went wrong, wouldn't be able to troubleshoot
- Questions: 
    - What is a body of knowledge to communicate to these teenagers?
    - What is the stack we need to build?
    - How can we get close enough to learn what we need to learn what we need to do?
- Currently:
    - Very likely test run in February
    - Haven't tested feasibility of extended project
    - What are the criteria for success
        - How much do the kids need to learn for this to be worthwhile?
- Udit: Current teacher/curriculum?
    - ICT Teacher, someone had been hired to do install, didn't get too far?
- Current experience with internet?
    - Aware that phones exist. Internet connection is spotty, and browser that requires connection is frustrating/difficult to use
- What about internet cell package?
    - Appears to be standard Internet/calling/SMS packages, rather than the FB packages available in other parts of hte devlopingworld (including India)
- Udit: STEAM link, incubated in residence at Steam Labs. A low-power IoT toolkit, targetting makers. Sensors, network monitoring through a web console, also nodes, gateways, backend all self-hosted, without the internet
    - Relies on LoRA (low-power, long-range) 25kms of AAs!
    - Proof of concept, hosted workshops
    - Donn P. tested principles in Nepal
    - Mountainous regions can be good if nodes are really high up!
- Udit: Donn working from similar principles, but distinct project on moisture data and forcasting irrigation req.s in future. Partnership based with local farmers (and gov't?)
    - Working closely with folks there
    - Tech is GSM, particle cloud/network
- Udit: testing using LoRA in places with poor cell signal-- bridge between
- Matt: These projects pose contraints. 
    - Ensuring project is genuinely useful, don't want to decide for others
    - Working with "pre-mainstream" tech that needs to be robust for folks not technically trained
- Udit: Thinking about how a cellphone could access a captive portal? Would that be a 
- Dawn: We reached out to Nico Pace around Community Networks
- Matt: People currently go to gangtok (sp?) to browse the web (could be changing)-- density of cell towers etc... could impact this
    - Everything related to the web that we know it is future-oriented
    - Teens a demographic to work with: "Can afford to just learn"
- Backing up: 
    - Matt: Built website with KCC and workshop. Other region wanted a PDF form and website being built... still take a while but shorter than existing service model (taxi to service, etc...)
- Udit: not about setting up hardware?
- Matt: based on inital work and what was rewarding, working with kids. Haven't thought enough to delimit the scope.
- Udit: Have done robotics workshop within a different school system (no micro controllors), cardboard kits!
- Revisiting the questions from earlier in this call:
    - What is a body of knowledge to communicate to these teenagers?
    - How can we get close enough to learn what we need to learn what we need to do?
    - What are the criteria for success
        - How much do the kids need to learn for this to be worthwhile?
- Laila: Also, what does community input look like?
- Udit: Interested! How can help? Will be around Delhi in two weeks, available to meet folks there!

Next steps:
- Code at the edge people: 
    - Share PRD doc to Udit
- Dawn: Set up a casual beer time before Dec 8! 
- Dawn: Share meeting bits to other Steam Labs people
