# Code at the Edge Meeting 26 Nov 2018

Date: 26 Nov 2018, 10:30 am ET
Attendees: Matt, Faraz, Dawn, Laila

- It could be something that "feels" successful without actually being such, because it feels good
- Do we have a specific chunk of work to do that is sufficiently thought through to justify going?
- Decided to **go ahead with February delivery**, Matt, Dawn, Laila, Frances G (maybe) as those folks

_Note: below is transcribed from whiteboarding session_

## Prep  

**MIN**
- SSHRC payment limits
- SSHRC REB
- Develop Curriculum
  - culturally responsive
  - JS?
  - Computational thinking?
- Contact with School
  - Hey can we come in Feb?
  - How much time?
- Curriculum feedback
  - t3, similar projects?
- Test run of system
- Hardware dec'ns made
  - minimum set of new features:
    - local storage
    - export/import function
    - authentication
    - url "retrieval" of sessions, as teacher
  - skills needed to create them
- Hardware implementation
  - other forms of authentication
  - shell/systemd scripting
  - webmaker served
  - config
    - pw
    - hostname
    - XXXX?
- Develop trip protocol/Itinerary
  - Whose going?
  - Work plan
  
**STRETCH**
  - Contact KBGV
    - teacher prep time?
  - Research Writing?
    - Submission to DIS/CHI

## During: Itinerary/Protocol
  - Develop Protocol
  - What is the next model? (e.g., process workshopping with local businesses)
  - Less remote location train the trainers (E.g., "handoff")

## Afterwards
  **MIN**
  - Debrief
  - Post-contact KBGV
  - Research Writing
