# Code at the Edge Chat with PL 19 Nov 2018

Date: 19 Nov 2018, 4:30 pm
Attendees: Matt, MHz, Dawn

## Notes

- MP: Sikkim context
    - absorbed into India in 1970s
    - Mountainous, culturally distinct
    - Broader context of poverty
    - Infrastructure: less cable, cell signal spotty
    - Size of Delaware, but takes many miles to get across the state
    - Last year did a project (website) with KCC ngo working near [big mountain name], with a focus on eco-development
        - As part of existing research/teaching project based out of U of Toronto
    - Did a thing with WordPress with gov officials at first
    - What about a school? How about this social model school for very poor girls -- it's a thing. Big project, aimed at "backward" tribes and castes (dalits and tribal, indigenous peoples).
    - So:
        - This school has a computer lab, and a router, but no internet -- because it has no internet
        - We used an existing code school exercise that we downloaded locally. We did this usual thing where you do basic HTML, images, etc.
        - What would it look like to successfully teach in this environment?
        - And when you walk around, you can see the conduit for fiber that they're going to pull around there. It will preferentially go to gov buildings and schools, probably. Then there will be some level of general availability of internet.
        - So, in West Sikkim, there are basically no web devs. Right now, there's a dependency relationship with places in Dehli. And people like us, we only go to places that we find on the internet.
        - What if, in 4 years from now, when the internet finally comes to Sikkim, the best web devs are a bunch of 18 year old girls.
    - The technically interesting part is that there's basically no internet. Even via cell.
        - All of the code playgrounds I know about kinda use the internet because they're for web development
        - There are new ones that are meant to be offline-accessible, but they don't have offline auth. Or are designed for personal use. No persistent url structures so you can't share easily. Mozilla Thimble is really cool, and has all these hinting tools, but it's integrated into this big webmaker platform.
        - And it's not like the kids have never seen a phone, but HTML was completely new. 100% new.
        - I know with the history students I teach code to
- MHz: On PL side:
    - "Offline-first" interest in PL... Mikeal Rogers, Portia Burton Teri Chadbourne, who used to run "[offline camp](http://offlinefirst.org/camp/)"
    - PL general interest in low-connectivity / offline education
    - PL thinking of a "ProtoSchool"
    - Offline-first working group maybe on horizon
        - Molly Mackinley at PL is probably going to be the working group captain for 'offline first'
- MP: Concerns for project
    - building for robustness (lack of "in-time support")
    - what are the ways we ensure web literacy covered in curriculum
- DC: in IPFS awesome list, nothing popped out as a "code playground" but there are some things that are similar (offline-first pastebins, etc)?
    - Also: mapeo from Digital Democracy, which is an offline-first mapping project. Other stuff like that?
- MHz: Nico Pace's work on remote rural connectivity, workshops on how folks get online for the first time

Link share:
- https://skylight.digital/blog/puerto-rico-a-disaster-lab-three-research-proposals/
- https://medium.com/offline-camp/developing-world/home
- Nico Pace presentation on Community Networks https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4gVUKbXT0cM

Next steps:
- MP prepare a summary (with ask or not) and then Michelle will forward along inside PL, and cc everyone
- DC open conversation with Nico Pace
