# Code at the Edge meeting 25 Mar 2019

Date: 25 Mar 2019, 13:00-14:00 ET
Attendees: matt, frances, laila, faraz, dawn

## Agenda

- Recap including second week
- Reflection and Learnings
- Begin to discuss future

## Notes

- Went there!
- Felt like a blur
- A lot of work throughout
- Lots of tech problems
    - Networking issues
    - Dependencies and installing stuff
    - Lack of testing // interactions between applications and tech stack
- Teaching content assumed a smaller role. Where there for a lot of things including those relationships, etc... the importance of those other things became clearer
    - What can be taught is less than planned
    - Be able to adjust what counts as success
- Pedagogical outcomes
    - Maybe not what we expected (in many cases very )
    - Unsure how to think about
    - Teachers interested in the way that we taught
    - How to maximize the pedagogical/conceptual in the context
- Overall positive though! Tremendously encouraging!
- 1 week is a hard length of time to be there
- "Up and running" for the site/network... we left all the stuff there, but the room is broken down/things are left powered down when not in use at all times

## Learnings

- If we would have better articulated a schedule/plan for the days that might have spared  confusion
- Physical Notebooks as mode of thinking? How to support that better into the note
- Handling power outages
    - Lesson planning for it (mostly attitudinal)
    - Generator for gaurenteed flexibility?
    - Laptops, battery packs (also passthru)

## Looking to future

- Feedback from girls
    - Laila to share (type or scan)
- Academic writing
    - Curriculum materials for Environment
    - Curriculum materials for Tech
    - Writeup of what happened
        - Reflections included
        - Google Drive project folder
    - Interest:
        - Frances
        - Dawn
        - Laila (editing)
        - Matt (editing)
    - Timeline:
        - March transcribe notes
        - April writing
- Grant arc
    - Local app
    - What is a model that abstract the pedagogical project from site in a way (play a temporarily mediating role?)
        - Move leadership to other people if it appears
    - How the materials is coupled? Separate environment(food) and tech?
    - Way to further develop it "thinking about relationship between generic and specific"
- Time to reconnect to folks who already do this?

# TODOs

- Ask Sikshu about the pedagogical outcomes the teachers saw?
- Dawn: Laila: Add notes to Google Drive
- All: Start write up Google Drive
- All: Meet again in May
