# Code at the Edge meeting 21 Jan 2019

Date: 21 Jan 2019, 12:30 ET  
Attendees: matt, frances, laila, faraz, dawn

## Agenda

1. Curriculum Discussion
1. Review timeline/deadlines

## Notes

### Curriculum Discussion

- Thought: Hear final project thoughts on Food/interconnection themes
- [Refer to Curriculum Planning](https://hackmd.io/sIrdnxEbRu-MhGo2zIt91Q)
- Update from Sustainable track:
    - Pull on curriculum resources
    - Lots of drawing and floor activities
    - Supplies:
        - Big paper
        - Stickers
        - Magazines
        - Polaroid camera:  pictures of foods that they could bring!
        - Collaging
        - Laminated Map Kits (pins, etc...!)
        - Game: printing out eco dollars, game supplies
        - "Recipe for Change"
    - Hooks in for website:
      - World maps
      - Body maps
      - Venn diagrams
      - Polaroid (Photos?) --
      - Recipes
- Update from Web track:
    - Want to work back from the end project to help set up the lessons
    - e.g., Layout options: flexbox, grid, <HTML box>
    - Component-based architecture built up through the lessons
  - What are examples of final content and how that informs the layout we use for the Web track?
  - Project web elements:
    - Pictures
    - Location could also be nice
    - Listing for ingredients
    - "Mapping"
  - Strong success with students in a "do"-based learning environment
    - emphasis on decoration and layout
- End project: School's "recipe book"
- Faraz: Updating examples to thematically link across section
- Frances: daily meeting at the school on the morning
- Web track update:
    - Session 2:
        - Very similar to last time
        - Introdution to HTML
    - Session 3:
        - Primary and secondary elements
        - ("objects wrapped in paper and then decorated")
        - e.x., Food Packaging**
    - Session 4:
        - Interlinking pages, taking pictures, layouts
        - E.x., pictures of stuff they've been working on in each section!
    - Session 5: (Stretch goal)
        - Javascript
        - JSON Objects
            - relationship between data and representation
            - graceful degradation/fallback?
            - Not rely on it for an essential part of the page
    - Ultimate goal: that the girls feel confident learning about computers!
    - Goal: Feeling able to troubleshoot hardware/software
- Week 2 topics:
    - Troubleshooting computers (networks)?
    - Asking questions about tech?
- Things to confirm:
    - Is there a projector?
    - What is the final number of students?
    - Finding a broken desktop here?

#### Timeline

- Immediately:Email to school
- Immediately: RPi testing and website deployment
- Jan 28: List of examples
- Feb 4: curriculum finalized and shared review (web development materials public
- Feb 5: teaching ready
